README.md, before:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [ansible-frr](#ansible-frr)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Role Variables](#role-variables)
  - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)
  - [Route Maps and Prefix Lists](#route-maps-and-prefix-lists)
    - [Route Maps](#route-maps)
      - [Configuring Route Maps](#configuring-route-maps)
    - [Prefix Lists](#prefix-lists)
      - [Configuring Prefix Lists](#configuring-prefix-lists)
    - [Access Lists](#access-lists)
      - [Configuring Access Lists](#configuring-access-lists)
  - [Supported Routing Protocols](#supported-routing-protocols)
    - [BGP](#bgp)
      - [Enable BGP](#enable-bgp)
      - [Configuring BGP](#configuring-bgp)
      - [Example BGP](#example-bgp)
    - [OSPF](#ospf)
      - [Enable OSPF](#enable-ospf)
      - [Configuring OSPF](#configuring-ospf)
    - [STATIC](#static)
      - [Configuring STATIC routes](#configuring-static-routes)
  - [Interface Configuration](#interface-configuration)
    - [Interfaces](#interfaces)
  - [Vagrant](#vagrant)
    - [Spinning Up](#spinning-up)
    - [Monitoring](#monitoring)
    - [Grafana](#grafana)
      - [Accessing Grafana](#accessing-grafana)
      - [Configuring InfluxDB Data Source](#configuring-influxdb-data-source)
    - [Grafana Dashboards](#grafana-dashboards)
    - [Tearing down](#tearing-down)
  - [Upgrade/Downgrade](#upgradedowngrade)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Author Information](#author-information)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# ansible-frr

An [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com) role to install/configure [FRR](https://frrouting.org/)

> NOTE: FRRouting (FRR) is an IP routing protocol suite for Linux and Unix
> platforms which includes protocol daemons for BGP, IS-IS, LDP, OSPF, PIM, and RIP.

## Requirements

## Role Variables

[defaults/main.yml](defaults/main.yml)

## Dependencies

## Example Playbook

## Route Maps and Prefix Lists

### Route Maps

#### Configuring Route Maps
Below is an example of Route Maps Configuration:

```yaml
frr_route_map:
  RTBH:
    permit 10:
      interface: blackhole
      prefix_list: Bad_IPs
      origin: igp
      community: '12345:100'
  RTBH_IN:
    deny 10: []

```

### General Options

#### IP/IPv6 Forwarding
Below is an example of enabling ip and ipv6 forwading:

```yaml
frr_ip_forwarding: true
frr_ipv6_forwarding: true
```

### Prefix Lists

#### Configuring Prefix Lists
Below is an example of Prefix List Configuration:

```yaml
frr_prefix_list:
  Bad_IPs:
    05 permit:
      prefix: 192.168.88.0/24
      match: ge 32
    10 permit:
      prefix: 172.16.0.0/16
      match: le 32
frr_prefix_list_v6:
  Bad_IPs:
    05 permit:
      prefix: 1234:5678::/32
      match: ge 128
```

### Access Lists

#### Configuring Access Lists
Below is an example

```yaml
frr_access_list:
  - '10 permit 10.10.10.21/32'
  - '10 permit 192.168.0.0/17'
  - '101 permit ip 10.0.0.0 0.0.0.255 any'
```

## Supported Routing Protocols

| Protocol      | Implemented | Notes               |
| ------------- | ----------- | ------------------- |
| [BGP](#bgp)   | X           | Only initial config |
| [OSPF](#ospf) | X           | Only initial config |
| [STATIC](#static) | X       | Only initial config |

### BGP

#### Enable BGP

To enable BGP routing, make sure that `bgpd: true` is configured under:

```yaml
frr_daemons:
  bgpd: false
  isisd: false
  ldpd: false
  nhrpd: false
  ospf6d: false
  ospfd: false
  pimd: false
  ripd: false
  ripngd: false
  zebra: true
```

#### Configuring BGP

In order to configure BGP, define the following based on your requirements:

```yaml
frr_bgp:
  asns:
    65000:
      log_neighbor_changes: true
      timers: '3 9'
      other:
        - "bgp bestpath as-path multipath-relax"
      neighbors:
        group1:
          asn: 66000
          is_peer_group: true
          multihop: 255
        192.168.250.11:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node1
          next_hop_self: true
          timers_connect: 5
          v6only: true
          other:
            - "capability dynamic"
        192.168.250.12:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node2
          next_hop_self: true
          password: secret
        192.168.250.12:
          peer_group: group1
          description: far_away
      networks:
        - "{{ frr_router_id }}/32"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s8']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      redistribute:
        - bgp
        - connected
        - kernel
        - ospf
        - static
      redistribute_v6:
        - bgp
        - connected
        - kernel
```

#### Example BGP

Below is an example of a BGP configuration:

```yaml
frr_bgp:
  asns:
    65000:
      log_neighbor_changes: true
      af_v4:
        - "maximum-paths 2"
      af_v6:
        - "maximum-paths 2"
      neighbors:
        192.168.250.11:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node1
          next_hop_self: true
          af_v4:
            - "soft-reconfiguration inbound"
        192.168.250.12:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node2
          next_hop_self: true
        "::1":
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node1
          next_hop_self: true
          af_v6:
            - "activate"
            - "soft-reconfiguration inbound"
      networks:
        - "{{ frr_router_id }}/32"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s8']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s9']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s10']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s16']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      networks_v6:
        - "1::3/64"
```

Below is an example of a BGP summary based on the above configuration:

```bash
BGP table version is 13, local router ID is 1.1.1.1
Status codes: s suppressed, d damped, h history, * valid, > best, = multipath,
              i internal, r RIB-failure, S Stale, R Removed
Origin codes: i - IGP, e - EGP, ? - incomplete

   Network          Next Hop            Metric LocPrf Weight Path
*> 1.1.1.1/32       0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i2.2.2.2/32       192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i3.3.3.3/32       192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*> 192.168.10.0     0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i192.168.11.0     192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i192.168.12.0     192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*> 192.168.20.0     0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i192.168.21.0     192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i192.168.22.0     192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*> 192.168.30.0     0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i192.168.31.0     192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i192.168.32.0     192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
* i192.168.250.0    192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
* i                 192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*>                  0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i

Displayed  13 routes and 15 total paths
```

### OSPF

#### Enable OSPF

To enable OSPF routing, make sure that `ospfd: true` is configured under:

```yaml
frr_daemons:
  bgpd: false
  isisd: false
  ldpd: false
  nhrpd: false
  ospf6d: false
  ospfd: false
  pimd: false
  ripd: false
  ripngd: false
  zebra: true
```

#### Configuring OSPF

In order to configure OSPF, define the following based on your requirements:

```yaml
frr_ospf:
  areas:
    0:
      networks:
        - "{{ frr_router_id }}/32"
    1:
      networks:
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s8']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      auth: true

    2:
      networks:
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s9']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      type: nssa

  log_adjacency_changes: true
  passive_interfaces: # A list of interfaces to set passive
    - default
  redistribute: # A list of protocols to redistribute
    - bgp
    - connected
    - kernel
    - ospf
    - static
  distribute_list:
    - name: 10
      dir: out
      protocol: connected
```

### STATIC

#### Configuring STATIC routes

In order to configure static routes, define the following based on your requirements:

```yaml
frr_static: # A dict. key = destination, value = nexthop
  10.0.0.0/8: 192.168.1.1
  1.1.1.1: 192.168.1.1
  1.1.1.2: blackhole
frr_static_v6: # A dict. key = destination, value = nexthop
  2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::/64 2001::1
```

## Interface Configuration

### Interfaces

```yaml
frr_interfaces: # A dict. key = iface name, value = iface data
  lo:
    ip: 10.0.0.0/32 # ip can be a single value or list
    ipv6: 2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::1/64 # ipv6 can be a single value or list
    description: loopback
  eth0:
    ip: # ip can be a single value or list
      - 10.0.0.0/32
      - 172.16.0.0/32
    ipv6: # ipv6 can be a single value or list
      - 2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::1/64
      - 2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::2/64
    auth:
      id: 1
      key: supersecret
    other:
      - "no ipv6 nd suppress-ra"
      - "link-detect"
```

## Vagrant

Included is a ready to go BGP CLOS fabric based on the below diagram. Ready to
be spun up in Vagrant.

![FRR-BGP-Routing](https://github.com/mrlesmithjr/diagrams/blob/master/FRR-BGP-Routing.png?raw=true)

| Node     | Function | ASN   | Loopback     | enp0s8            | enp0s9          | enp0s10         | enp0s16        | enp0s17        |
| -------- | -------- | ----- | ------------ | ----------------- | --------------- | --------------- | -------------- | -------------- |
| Spine1   | Spine    | 65011 | 10.0.10.1/32 | 192.168.250.11/24 | 192.168.1.0/31  | 192.168.1.2/31  | 192.168.1.4/31 | 192.168.1.6/31 |
| Spine2   | Spine    | 65012 | 10.0.10.2/32 | 192.168.250.12/24 | 192.168.2.0/31  | 192.168.2.2/31  | 192.168.2.4/31 | 192.168.2.6/31 |
| Leaf1    | Leaf     | 65021 | 10.0.20.3/32 | 192.168.250.21/24 | 192.168.1.1/31  | 192.168.10.0/31 | 192.168.2.5/31 |                |
| Leaf2    | Leaf     | 65022 | 10.0.20.4/32 | 192.168.250.22/24 | 192.168.1.3/31  | 192.168.10.2/31 | 192.168.2.7/31 |                |
| Leaf3    | Leaf     | 65023 | 10.0.20.5/32 | 192.168.250.23/24 | 192.168.1.5/31  | 192.168.20.0/31 | 192.168.2.1/31 |                |
| Leaf4    | Leaf     | 65024 | 10.0.20.6/32 | 192.168.250.24/24 | 192.168.1.7/31  | 192.168.20.2/31 | 192.168.2.3/31 |                |
| Compute1 | Compute  | 65031 | 10.0.30.1/32 | 192.168.250.31/24 | 192.168.10.1/31 | 192.168.10.3/31 |                |                |
| Compute2 | Compute  | 65032 | 10.0.30.2/32 | 192.168.250.32/24 | 192.168.20.1/31 | 192.168.20.3/31 |                |                |

### Spinning Up

In order to spin up this environment simply do the following:

```bash
cd Vagrant
vagrant up
```

Once all of the nodes are spun up your routing topology should be similar to
below:

```bash
sh ip route bgp
Codes: K - kernel route, C - connected, S - static, R - RIP,
       O - OSPF, I - IS-IS, B - BGP, P - PIM, N - NHRP, T - Table,
       v - VNC, V - VNC-Direct,
       > - selected route, * - FIB route

B>* 10.0.10.2/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.20.3/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.1, enp0s9, 02:43:37
B>* 10.0.20.4/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.20.5/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.5, enp0s16, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.20.6/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.30.1/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.30.2/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.2.0/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.5, enp0s16, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.2.2/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.2.4/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.1, enp0s9, 02:43:37
B>* 192.168.2.6/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.10.0/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.1, enp0s9, 02:43:37
B>* 192.168.10.2/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.20.0/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.5, enp0s16, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.20.2/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
```

### Monitoring

We have included some basic monitoring of BGP stats and system stats. We are
spinning up an `InfluxDB` container on `compute1` and a `Grafana` container on
`compute2` as part of the provisioning. All of the VMs are running
`Telegraf` which is running some scripts to capture BGP stats and then sending
to `InfluxDB`. We can then visualize the status using `Grafana` by connecting to
the [Grafana Web UI](http://192.168.250.32:3000) which again, is a Docker
container running on `compute2`.

### Grafana

#### Accessing Grafana

Using your browser of choice connect to the [Grafana Web UI](http://192.168.250.32:3000)
and use `admin:admin` to login.

#### Configuring InfluxDB Data Source

Add InfluxDB as a data source by providing the following in the config:

-   `Name:` influxdb
-   `Type:` InfluxDB
-   `URL:` <http://192.168.250.31:8086>
-   `Database:` telegraf

### Grafana Dashboards

We have included some `Grafana` dashboards which can be imported in the
[Vagrant/dashboards](Vagrant/dashboards) folder.

![BGP Stats](images/2018/02/bgp-stats.png)

### Tearing down

When you are done testing you can simply tear everything down by:

```bash
scripts/cleanup.sh
```
## Upgrade/Downgrade
> NOTE: FRR is unable to be downgraded from 6.0.2 using this role.

You can upgrade or downgrade FRR by setting the following variable:

`frr_version: 6.0.2` from `frr_version: 6.0`


## License

MIT

## Author Information

Larry Smith Jr.

-   [EverythingShouldBeVirtual](http://everythingshouldbevirtual.com)
-   [@mrlesmithjr](https://www.twitter.com/mrlesmithjr)
-   <mailto:mrlesmithjr@gmail.com>

Commit message:

Allows for Quagga configuration from this role.
Features:
 - quagga configration (via routing_type var)
 - quagga configuration documentation
Bug Fixes:
 - redistribute_v6 is fixed

README.md, after:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [ansible-frr](#ansible-frr)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Role Variables](#role-variables)
  - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)
  - [Route Maps and Prefix Lists](#route-maps-and-prefix-lists)
    - [Route Maps](#route-maps)
      - [Configuring Route Maps](#configuring-route-maps)
    - [Prefix Lists](#prefix-lists)
      - [Configuring Prefix Lists](#configuring-prefix-lists)
    - [Access Lists](#access-lists)
      - [Configuring Access Lists](#configuring-access-lists)
  - [Supported Routing Protocols](#supported-routing-protocols)
    - [BGP](#bgp)
      - [Enable BGP](#enable-bgp)
      - [Configuring BGP](#configuring-bgp)
      - [Example BGP](#example-bgp)
    - [OSPF](#ospf)
      - [Enable OSPF](#enable-ospf)
      - [Configuring OSPF](#configuring-ospf)
    - [STATIC](#static)
      - [Configuring STATIC routes](#configuring-static-routes)
  - [Interface Configuration](#interface-configuration)
    - [Interfaces](#interfaces)
  - [Vagrant](#vagrant)
    - [Spinning Up](#spinning-up)
    - [Monitoring](#monitoring)
    - [Grafana](#grafana)
      - [Accessing Grafana](#accessing-grafana)
      - [Configuring InfluxDB Data Source](#configuring-influxdb-data-source)
    - [Grafana Dashboards](#grafana-dashboards)
    - [Tearing down](#tearing-down)
  - [Upgrade/Downgrade](#upgradedowngrade)
  - [Quagga Configruation](#quagga-configuration)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Author Information](#author-information)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# ansible-frr

An [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com) role to install/configure [FRR](https://frrouting.org/)

> NOTE: FRRouting (FRR) is an IP routing protocol suite for Linux and Unix
> platforms which includes protocol daemons for BGP, IS-IS, LDP, OSPF, PIM, and RIP.

## Requirements

## Role Variables

[defaults/main.yml](defaults/main.yml)

## Dependencies

## Example Playbook

## Route Maps and Prefix Lists

### Route Maps

#### Configuring Route Maps
Below is an example of Route Maps Configuration:

```yaml
frr_route_map:
  RTBH:
    permit 10:
      interface: blackhole
      prefix_list: Bad_IPs
      origin: igp
      community: '12345:100'
  RTBH_IN:
    deny 10: []

```

### General Options

#### IP/IPv6 Forwarding
Below is an example of enabling ip and ipv6 forwading:

```yaml
frr_ip_forwarding: true
frr_ipv6_forwarding: true
```

### Prefix Lists

#### Configuring Prefix Lists
Below is an example of Prefix List Configuration:

```yaml
frr_prefix_list:
  Bad_IPs:
    05 permit:
      prefix: 192.168.88.0/24
      match: ge 32
    10 permit:
      prefix: 172.16.0.0/16
      match: le 32
frr_prefix_list_v6:
  Bad_IPs:
    05 permit:
      prefix: 1234:5678::/32
      match: ge 128
```

### Access Lists

#### Configuring Access Lists
Below is an example

```yaml
frr_access_list:
  - '10 permit 10.10.10.21/32'
  - '10 permit 192.168.0.0/17'
  - '101 permit ip 10.0.0.0 0.0.0.255 any'
```

## Supported Routing Protocols

| Protocol      | Implemented | Notes               |
| ------------- | ----------- | ------------------- |
| [BGP](#bgp)   | X           | Only initial config |
| [OSPF](#ospf) | X           | Only initial config |
| [STATIC](#static) | X       | Only initial config |

### BGP

#### Enable BGP

To enable BGP routing, make sure that `bgpd: true` is configured under:

```yaml
frr_daemons:
  bgpd: false
  isisd: false
  ldpd: false
  nhrpd: false
  ospf6d: false
  ospfd: false
  pimd: false
  ripd: false
  ripngd: false
  zebra: true
```

#### Configuring BGP

In order to configure BGP, define the following based on your requirements:

```yaml
frr_bgp:
  asns:
    65000:
      log_neighbor_changes: true
      timers: '3 9'
      other:
        - "bgp bestpath as-path multipath-relax"
      neighbors:
        group1:
          asn: 66000
          is_peer_group: true
          multihop: 255
        192.168.250.11:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node1
          next_hop_self: true
          timers_connect: 5
          v6only: true
          other:
            - "capability dynamic"
        192.168.250.12:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node2
          next_hop_self: true
          password: secret
        192.168.250.12:
          peer_group: group1
          description: far_away
      networks:
        - "{{ frr_router_id }}/32"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s8']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      redistribute:
        - bgp
        - connected
        - kernel
        - ospf
        - static
      redistribute_v6:
        - bgp
        - connected
        - kernel
```

#### Example BGP

Below is an example of a BGP configuration:

```yaml
frr_bgp:
  asns:
    65000:
      log_neighbor_changes: true
      af_v4:
        - "maximum-paths 2"
      af_v6:
        - "maximum-paths 2"
      neighbors:
        192.168.250.11:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node1
          next_hop_self: true
          af_v4:
            - "soft-reconfiguration inbound"
        192.168.250.12:
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node2
          next_hop_self: true
        "::1":
          asn: 65000
          default_originate: false
          description: node1
          next_hop_self: true
          af_v6:
            - "activate"
            - "soft-reconfiguration inbound"
      networks:
        - "{{ frr_router_id }}/32"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s8']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s9']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s10']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s16']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      networks_v6:
        - "1::3/64"
```

Below is an example of a BGP summary based on the above configuration:

```bash
BGP table version is 13, local router ID is 1.1.1.1
Status codes: s suppressed, d damped, h history, * valid, > best, = multipath,
              i internal, r RIB-failure, S Stale, R Removed
Origin codes: i - IGP, e - EGP, ? - incomplete

   Network          Next Hop            Metric LocPrf Weight Path
*> 1.1.1.1/32       0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i2.2.2.2/32       192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i3.3.3.3/32       192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*> 192.168.10.0     0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i192.168.11.0     192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i192.168.12.0     192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*> 192.168.20.0     0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i192.168.21.0     192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i192.168.22.0     192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*> 192.168.30.0     0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i
*>i192.168.31.0     192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
*>i192.168.32.0     192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
* i192.168.250.0    192.168.250.11           0    100      0 i
* i                 192.168.250.12           0    100      0 i
*>                  0.0.0.0                  0         32768 i

Displayed  13 routes and 15 total paths
```

### OSPF

#### Enable OSPF

To enable OSPF routing, make sure that `ospfd: true` is configured under:

```yaml
frr_daemons:
  bgpd: false
  isisd: false
  ldpd: false
  nhrpd: false
  ospf6d: false
  ospfd: false
  pimd: false
  ripd: false
  ripngd: false
  zebra: true
```

#### Configuring OSPF

In order to configure OSPF, define the following based on your requirements:

```yaml
frr_ospf:
  areas:
    0:
      networks:
        - "{{ frr_router_id }}/32"
    1:
      networks:
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s8']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      auth: true

    2:
      networks:
        - "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_enp0s9']['ipv4']['address'] }}/24"
      type: nssa

  log_adjacency_changes: true
  passive_interfaces: # A list of interfaces to set passive
    - default
  redistribute: # A list of protocols to redistribute
    - bgp
    - connected
    - kernel
    - ospf
    - static
  distribute_list:
    - name: 10
      dir: out
      protocol: connected
```

### STATIC

#### Configuring STATIC routes

In order to configure static routes, define the following based on your requirements:

```yaml
frr_static: # A dict. key = destination, value = nexthop
  10.0.0.0/8: 192.168.1.1
  1.1.1.1: 192.168.1.1
  1.1.1.2: blackhole
frr_static_v6: # A dict. key = destination, value = nexthop
  2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::/64 2001::1
```

## Interface Configuration

### Interfaces

```yaml
frr_interfaces: # A dict. key = iface name, value = iface data
  lo:
    ip: 10.0.0.0/32 # ip can be a single value or list
    ipv6: 2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::1/64 # ipv6 can be a single value or list
    description: loopback
  eth0:
    ip: # ip can be a single value or list
      - 10.0.0.0/32
      - 172.16.0.0/32
    ipv6: # ipv6 can be a single value or list
      - 2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::1/64
      - 2001:0db8:85a3:8a2e::2/64
    auth:
      id: 1
      key: supersecret
    other:
      - "no ipv6 nd suppress-ra"
      - "link-detect"
```

## Vagrant

Included is a ready to go BGP CLOS fabric based on the below diagram. Ready to
be spun up in Vagrant.

![FRR-BGP-Routing](https://github.com/mrlesmithjr/diagrams/blob/master/FRR-BGP-Routing.png?raw=true)

| Node     | Function | ASN   | Loopback     | enp0s8            | enp0s9          | enp0s10         | enp0s16        | enp0s17        |
| -------- | -------- | ----- | ------------ | ----------------- | --------------- | --------------- | -------------- | -------------- |
| Spine1   | Spine    | 65011 | 10.0.10.1/32 | 192.168.250.11/24 | 192.168.1.0/31  | 192.168.1.2/31  | 192.168.1.4/31 | 192.168.1.6/31 |
| Spine2   | Spine    | 65012 | 10.0.10.2/32 | 192.168.250.12/24 | 192.168.2.0/31  | 192.168.2.2/31  | 192.168.2.4/31 | 192.168.2.6/31 |
| Leaf1    | Leaf     | 65021 | 10.0.20.3/32 | 192.168.250.21/24 | 192.168.1.1/31  | 192.168.10.0/31 | 192.168.2.5/31 |                |
| Leaf2    | Leaf     | 65022 | 10.0.20.4/32 | 192.168.250.22/24 | 192.168.1.3/31  | 192.168.10.2/31 | 192.168.2.7/31 |                |
| Leaf3    | Leaf     | 65023 | 10.0.20.5/32 | 192.168.250.23/24 | 192.168.1.5/31  | 192.168.20.0/31 | 192.168.2.1/31 |                |
| Leaf4    | Leaf     | 65024 | 10.0.20.6/32 | 192.168.250.24/24 | 192.168.1.7/31  | 192.168.20.2/31 | 192.168.2.3/31 |                |
| Compute1 | Compute  | 65031 | 10.0.30.1/32 | 192.168.250.31/24 | 192.168.10.1/31 | 192.168.10.3/31 |                |                |
| Compute2 | Compute  | 65032 | 10.0.30.2/32 | 192.168.250.32/24 | 192.168.20.1/31 | 192.168.20.3/31 |                |                |

### Spinning Up

In order to spin up this environment simply do the following:

```bash
cd Vagrant
vagrant up
```

Once all of the nodes are spun up your routing topology should be similar to
below:

```bash
sh ip route bgp
Codes: K - kernel route, C - connected, S - static, R - RIP,
       O - OSPF, I - IS-IS, B - BGP, P - PIM, N - NHRP, T - Table,
       v - VNC, V - VNC-Direct,
       > - selected route, * - FIB route

B>* 10.0.10.2/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.20.3/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.1, enp0s9, 02:43:37
B>* 10.0.20.4/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.20.5/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.5, enp0s16, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.20.6/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.30.1/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 10.0.30.2/32 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.2.0/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.5, enp0s16, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.2.2/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.2.4/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.1, enp0s9, 02:43:37
B>* 192.168.2.6/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.10.0/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.1, enp0s9, 02:43:37
B>* 192.168.10.2/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.3, enp0s10, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.20.0/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.5, enp0s16, 02:53:22
B>* 192.168.20.2/31 [20/0] via 192.168.1.7, enp0s17, 02:53:22
```

### Monitoring

We have included some basic monitoring of BGP stats and system stats. We are
spinning up an `InfluxDB` container on `compute1` and a `Grafana` container on
`compute2` as part of the provisioning. All of the VMs are running
`Telegraf` which is running some scripts to capture BGP stats and then sending
to `InfluxDB`. We can then visualize the status using `Grafana` by connecting to
the [Grafana Web UI](http://192.168.250.32:3000) which again, is a Docker
container running on `compute2`.

### Grafana

#### Accessing Grafana

Using your browser of choice connect to the [Grafana Web UI](http://192.168.250.32:3000)
and use `admin:admin` to login.

#### Configuring InfluxDB Data Source

Add InfluxDB as a data source by providing the following in the config:

-   `Name:` influxdb
-   `Type:` InfluxDB
-   `URL:` <http://192.168.250.31:8086>
-   `Database:` telegraf

### Grafana Dashboards

We have included some `Grafana` dashboards which can be imported in the
[Vagrant/dashboards](Vagrant/dashboards) folder.

![BGP Stats](images/2018/02/bgp-stats.png)

### Tearing down

When you are done testing you can simply tear everything down by:

```bash
scripts/cleanup.sh
```
## Upgrade/Downgrade
> NOTE: FRR is unable to be downgraded from 6.0.2 using this role.

You can upgrade or downgrade FRR by setting the following variable:

`frr_version: 6.0.2` from `frr_version: 6.0`

## Quagga configuration
> NOTE: Quagga must be installed from the local repos of the OS

You can configure quagga instead of FRR by using the following variable:

`routing_type: quagga`

> Additional Quagga-specific configurations

```bash
frr_bgp:
  asns:
    65000:
      neighbors:
        swp1:
          **interface: true**
```

## License

MIT

## Author Information

Larry Smith Jr.

-   [EverythingShouldBeVirtual](http://everythingshouldbevirtual.com)
-   [@mrlesmithjr](https://www.twitter.com/mrlesmithjr)
-   <mailto:mrlesmithjr@gmail.com>
